{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 When we look at the columns in foreclosed data, latitude\par
and longitude, they all have missing values.\par
We could take a look at the info again,\par
and it tells us that this 829,900 was 910,000.\par
Obviously, the missing value is here.\par
Similarly for latitude and longitude,\par
we have missing values as well.\par
So let's get rid of all of them.\par
You know, what the heck?\par
We don't really want missing values.\par
So we'll throw them all out.\par
And this, we can do very simply by using the same procedure\par
that we use for incidence zip.\par
But here I'm going to use a logical operator in the middle\par
of the conditions.\par
And in the pandas world, the logical operator\par
that we use in conditions is not the A in D,\par
or OR or NOT as in Python.\par
But we use ampersand as an and.\par
This would be an or-- or I'm sorry--\par
this would be an or-- the pipe character.\par
And this would be a not-- the exclamation point.\par
So that's how that works inside pandas.\par
So what we're going to say here is\par
that we want to include only those lines that\par
have a NOT NULL value for latitude,\par
a NOT NULL value for longitude, a NOT NULL\par
value for close date.\par
So that should take care of that.\par
Let's run this, and look at the info here.\par
And now we're down to 806,000, and they're all the same.\par
So now we have a data frame that contains\par
data that is all NOT NULL.\par
We've hopefully got rid of all the NULL values.\par
So that's the next step.\par
Next thing we can do is we can start\par
looking at the borough data and seeing\par
our goal is to clean the data.\par
So what we really want is a data frame\par
that contains data that is meaningful to us.\par
So we want to look at every column\par
to see whether the data in that thing makes sense or not.\par
So let's take a look at the second column--\par
the borough column--\par
and another column-- borough column-- we look at that,\par
and we look at the unique values there.\par
And we find that we have six values even though there\par
were only five borough.\par
And there's one borough that says unspecified.\par
So that's a problem for us.\par
What are the unspecified borough?\par
So we can of course remove it.\par
But before removing anything, we should also\par
look at the data, itself, to make sure\par
whether that removal is not going to cause us\par
problems down the road.\par
And what are the problems down the road?\par
You don't want to remove data systematically\par
from your data frame because otherwise, your analysis\par
is going to miss out on some systemic property that\par
is useful.\par
So you typically want to see that if you're moving data\par
that the data is occurring reasonably, randomly inside it\par
rather the problematic data is occurring reasonably, randomly\par
inside your data.\par
If that is the case, then you get rid of it.\par
It's not going to effect your analysis.\par
Or if there's a systematic reason\par
why we have unspecified in our database,\par
then we should probably keep it--\par
OK-- because we want maybe something useful\par
that we get out of it.\par
So let's see what we get from here.\par
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to say,\par
all right, show me the data that has the value of borough\par
unspecified.\par
So this is what we're seeing here--\par
data borough equals equals unspecified.\par
And we are extracting this from the data.\par
And from there, we go look at the two columns, agency\par
and incidence zip, just to see whether the unspecified borough\par
occurs systematically across agency or incidence zip.\par
All right.\par
So that's the goal here.\par
In reality, like I said, there's something like, I think,\par
60 or 70 columns in that database.\par
So you really need to look at it in more with the entire data\par
set.\par
But we are working with a smaller\par
data set because the limitations are full--\par
the speedo processing and the fact\par
that we have to upload and download all this data.\par
So we look at this here, and we run this through here,\par
and we look at this, and we look as just looking\par
at-- eyeballing it, it looks like there's lots\par
of NYPD in this thing here.\par
Lots of them are NYPD.\par
So we want to find out now is that really the case?\par
So let's take a closer look at this.\par
So what we'll do is we're going to use the GROUP BY function.\par
And we'll look at this in more detail later.\par
But the GROUP BY function, what it does\par
is it groups data in a data frame\par
by groups, which is somewhat like the SQL GROUP BY\par
that we saw last week.\par
It does pretty much the same thing.\par
So what we're going to do is we're going to look for the--\par
extract the data for unspecified burrow, then group\par
it by the agency so that we get the agency groups by NYPD, DOS,\par
DUE, borough sanitation, et cetera,\par
and come up with a count by groups.\par
OK.\par
So we can take a look and see whether we have some bias here\par
in this.\par
So we looked through this stuff here,\par
and we find that we've got--\par
well, this is all-- it's going to be the same in every column.\par
But we have 67 column--\par
67 rows for the housing department-- that's DHS.\par
I think it's housing.\par
I'm not really so sure-- and 725 for the New York Police\par
Department.\par
So clearly, there is a bias here of some sort\par
because 725 cases are NYPD cases.\par
So the New York Police Department\par
tends to do a lot of unspecified stuff.\par
What we want to do next is then find out\par
is this a significant proportion of NYPD cases?\par
Maybe if it's a small proportion,\par
we can still ignore it.\par
And like I said, there's very many more columns here.\par
So then maybe if we had all the columns,\par
we might find that there are certain kinds\par
of NYPD complaints that come with unspecified borough\par
like maybe their TLC complaints-- complaints\par
on moving violations of a certain type.\par
OK.\par
Something like that.\par
We don't know.\par
We don't have all the data, but that's\par
what we would want to see.\par
We want to see whether there is some small reason for that.\par
But right now all we know is that, hey, we\par
got 725 cases of unspecified borough for NYPD,\par
and we want to find out are these a significant proportion\par
of NYPD complaints or not?\par
So let's see if we can figure that out.\par
So what we'll do then is we'll say,\par
all right, we want to find the total NYPD complaints.\par
So let me run this piece by piece,\par
so we can take a look at each step.\par
Go in that, go in that, comment that, and run this.\par
So what this does is it's-- we're counting here the number\par
of cases where the agency is NYPD.\par
Very straightforward.\par
So let's see what that is.\par
Complaints total.\par
It does this 274,408.\par
So we got 725 out of that.\par
That doesn't look like a huge amount,\par
but let's get the exact number or exact percentage.\par
So here what we're going to look at is how many are--\par
let's look.\par
I don't want that.\par
So 725.\par
So we've got-- these are the cases where we have\par
NYPD and an unspecified borough\par
And then we can divide the first number--\par
oh, sorry-- the second number by the first number to figure out\par
the percent of cases where NYPD is unspecified and it is NYPD--\par
a good percentage of NYPD complaints\par
that are unspecified that have an unspecified borough.\par
And that's 0.26%.\par
It's not a huge number.\par
And like I said, what we would like to do,\par
of course, is take this data and look at the entire data set\par
and then see whether there is some systematic reason\par
for these 0.26% cases.\par
But we don't have all that.\par
So what we'll do is we'll just chuck them.\par
OK.\par
We'll throw them out.\par
And because for one thing, it can\par
be hard to explain that when we are representing our results\par
to management or whatever.\par
We'll say unspecified borough.\par
And they'll say, what the heck is that?\par
So what we'll do is we'll take our data\par
and say include only those elements in our data\par
where the borough is not equal to unspecified.\par
So this is where borough is Manhattan, Queens, Brooklyn,\par
Bronx, and Staten Island.\par
So this note is our NOT sign over here.\par
It says NOT equal to.\par
This is actually pretty common in computer programming\par
languages.\par
Python is a bit of an exception with the AA and D stuff.\par
So that takes us through to that.\par
And let's take a look at our thing now.\par
And, so, it's down below.\par
And what do we have now?\par
Data dot info.\par
And we are now down to 805,000 from 970,000 approximately.\par
So we lost quite a bit of data in this process.\par
So we need to be careful.\par
We've lost, I think, almost 170,000 lines of data.\par
So that's a pretty hefty chunk of our data--\par
10%, more than 10%.\par
So we should be a little bit careful\par
when we think about this.\par
If you're losing a lot of data, we're\par
going to lose a lot of meaning in our analysis as well.\par
So I'm going through this very, very quickly.\par
But in reality, you want to take a lot of pains\par
over figuring out whether something should be retained\par
or not retained in your data set.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
  Previous\par
}
 