{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 Now that you are ready with your data properly set up,\par
we can start working with text itself.\par
So let's see what we can do with it.\par
The first thing and probably the easiest thing to do with text\par
is to figure out the sentiment of piece of text.\par
Sentiment means is it saying something positive?\par
Is it saying something negative?\par
Is it going to inspire?\par
Is it surprise or fear or something like that?\par
And that's the idea in sentiment analysis,\par
and it's not a simple subject.\par
Because if you look at our examples over here that I have,\par
you can say something like, I had an excellent souffle\par
at the restaurant Cavity Maker.\par
So what this is saying, the word excellent souffle\par
is telling us that I really liked this.\par
It's a very positive statement about the restaurant.\par
because excellent souffle at that place.\par
Excellent is a positive word, and it\par
implies that we like the souffle and we like the restaurant.\par
It's positive about both.\par
But then, there are certain cases--\par
and English language being a funny language--\par
there are certain cases where things--\par
all languages I guess-- where it's not always so clear.\par
For example, if I had a statement that said,\par
The Girl on the Train is an excellent book\par
for a stuck-at-home snow day.\par
That's a positive word, right?\par
Because it says The Girl on the Train\par
is an excellent book for a stuck-at-home snow day.\par
You're stuck at home.\par
You can't go anywhere.\par
There's like piles of snow outside.\par
So what do you do?\par
You curl up with The Girl on the Train,\par
and that sounds like a good way to spend your time.\par
So that's a positive statement.\par
However, if I see The Girl on the Train\par
is an excellent book for using as a liner for your cat's\par
litter box.\par
Now, clearly, if this comes up in a review,\par
then it would indicate that the reviewer did not\par
like The Girl on the Train because they\par
want to use it for something where a book is not\par
intended to be used for.\par
Just to be clear, I actually enjoyed the book a lot,\par
so it's not something that I would say the book is not nice.\par
It's actually a great book.\par
It's an example.\par
And anyone reading this will understand\par
that the reviewer did not like the book,\par
but for a computer to figure this out\par
is going to be really hard.\par
Because how does it know that liner for your cat's litter box\par
is not the normal use for a book?\par
It's a negative connotation for us, but for a computer program\par
it's really hard.\par
Then there's a third case here.\par
The Girl on the Train is better than Gone Girl.\par
Now, these are two books, and we are saying\par
this book is better than that.\par
But the reviewer, for example, could\par
have disliked Gone Girl a lot and said I didn't really\par
like the book at all.\par
You know, I hate Girl on the train,\par
but it's better than Gone Girl.\par
It's not as bad as that, which is not necessarily\par
a positive statement.\par
All we can say is that this is in the eyes of the viewer\par
or the document is better than this,\par
but we can't say whether it's good or bad\par
or a sign of more general sentiment to that.\par
So when you're working with language,\par
you need to bear these things in mind.\par
That, in general, the English language\par
is not always clear as to whether something\par
is being stated positively or negatively.\par
And sometimes if you have a comparative,\par
you should just use it only for comparisons.\par
So we can say Girl on the Train is better than Gone Girl,\par
but we can't really say anything independently about it.\par
That's a caveat we should keep in mind, but that said,\par
a lot of text mining is done on technical or official documents\par
which are not going to be using sarcasm in this form.\par
So they're not going to be saying stuff like this.\par
So if, for example, you're reading\par
analyst reports for stocks, then unlikely\par
to be saying things in this format.\par
They're more likely to be very clearly saying\par
that there's positive growth or growth is on target or things\par
like that.\par
So with official documents or technical documents\par
or documents that have content and are not fiction,\par
are not reviews or things like that, the odds are--\par
running essentially, of course, and this can be as ironic\par
or sarcastic as anybody else--\par
the odds are that your data is going to look pretty good.\par
But the bottom line in all this is that sentiment analysis\par
is a good starting point, but bear in mind that it's not\par
always going to work very well.\par
Sentiment analysis is usually done\par
using a corpus of positive and negative words.\par
So this is the other tricky aspect of sentiment analysis.\par
So out there on the internet, you're\par
going to find lots of collections\par
of words that are positive and negative,\par
and you can use those.\par
But of course, if you have a very well-defined domain\par
that you're doing sentiment analysis in,\par
you might be better off in constructing\par
your own positive and negative words because in your domain\par
there may be a different set of words that are applicable.\par
So that's the idea there, and there\par
are several different sets of analysis.\par
I've listed a few of them here.\par
There are many, many more.\par
These are just sets of positive and negative words\par
in the Hu and Liu sentiment analysis lexicon.\par
There's the NRC emotion lexicon, which I've included actually\par
in my data set that I'm giving you guys,\par
but the lexicon itself is no longer\par
available without permission on the internet.\par
So bear in mind that the use of this lexicon\par
is solely for this class.\par
If you want to use it for anything else,\par
you should probably get permission for it.\par
There is SentiWord list, which a list of words\par
rated with positive or negative sentiment.\par
And we're not going to use this one,\par
but it says, for example, excellent is a highly positive.\par
So it has a 0.7 rating, whereas good is maybe 0.4\par
or 0.4, that kind of thing.\par
So positive, negative words are just words.\par
There's no polarity attached to them.\par
These ones have some polarity.\par
And then there's Avada's sentiment tool,\par
which has 7,800 words with positive or negative polarity.\par
This comes as part of Python NLTK.\par
You have to download some things for it.\par
We'll do that along the way.\par
And the thing about biosentiment,\par
which we're going to use here-- and again,\par
not perhaps in the context it's meant to be used.\par
But it's really been constructed using email and chats\par
and informal texts.\par
So it contains things on emoticons.\par
Emojis and those kind of things are also included in it.\par
So it's really good.\par
If you're working with Twitter feeds or Facebook posts\par
or things like that, and you want to do some sentiment\par
analysis on those, then biosentiment\par
actually works very well, should work very well.\par
Nothing is certain.\par
For most of our class, we're going\par
to use these two examples.\par
I've compiled a set of 15 reviews of four neighborhood\par
restaurants, the neighborhood being the Columbia University\par
neighborhood.\par
And these are just taken off from Yelp,\par
so they're just general reviews.\par
I'm also going to use the Yelp API.\par
So as a sort of side benefit, we're\par
going to see how do you use the Yelp\par
API, which is kind of nice.\par
And then I have the presidential inaugural addresses,\par
which is included in the corpus, and I've added--\par
like we just did in the first video--\par
I've added Obama and Trump, Obama 2013 and Trump 2017\par
to that corpus.\par
And that's about it really.\par
So these three examples we're going to use,\par
and that's going to be our focus for the rest of this week's\par
session.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
  Previous\par
}
 