{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 All right.\par
So now if you'll go to your server running,\par
my SQL Server running.\par
And everything's good to go, let's\par
take a look at what SQL queries looks like.\par
So, generally, in a very rough way,\par
we can think of queries of being of three types.\par
There are data definitional queries, which\par
are used to define the table, to change the table in some way,\par
maybe change a field definition and that kind of stuff.\par
The data manipulation queries where you insert, delete,\par
or update actual data.\par
So data definitional queries are the queries\par
that are defining or changing the schema--\par
the schema is the structure of a database-- in some way.\par
Data manipulation is the queries that\par
are changing the data itself.\par
And the third element is data querying.\par
Data querying is the process of getting data from the database.\par
And this is where we will typically do maximum work.\par
That's because usually you're querying a database trying\par
to find information, and that's where\par
the power of the querying language-- the one that is\par
descriptive-- comes into play.\par
So let's take a look at some of these queries.\par
So we start with our basic data definition queries,\par
and we can see that there are a bunch of them.\par
So let's take a look, here are the basic queries.\par
Well, the first thing you want to do, of course,\par
is see what databases exist in your server.\par
So there's a simple command called SHOW,\par
and what SHOW does is it'll show you\par
the SHOW databases will show you the list of these databases.\par
SHOW shows you something on the database.\par
We'll see that against your table,\par
across your databases, et cetera.\par
So this is our SHOW database command.\par
You can create a database and that\par
uses a command called CREATE, which says, create a database,\par
so it creates that.\par
And we give it a clause here that says,\par
IF NOT EXISTS, which means that if the database actually\par
exists and you try to create it, you're\par
going to get an error saying the data is already exists.\par
So IF NOT EXIST is sort of protection, and says,\par
only if it doesn't exist, then you should create it.\par
Once you've got that, and you want to actually use\par
a particular database, so inside a database server,\par
you can have multiple databases.\par
So you tell which when you want to use and use\par
a command called USE, use this particular database.\par
And finally, if you want to drop the database itself,\par
you use a command called DROP and tell it what you're\par
dropping in the database.\par
And you give it the name of the database.\par
So we have a sample database called\par
SchoolDB, which I will take a look at in a minute.\par
And that should do that thing.\par
So let's now move on and see how this works on MySQL Workbench.\par
MySQL Workbench is a GUI client for MySQL.\par
So let's take a look at it.\par
You should be able to run it on your machines\par
if you downloaded it following the instructions on our class\par
site.\par
And when you open up MySQL Workbench,\par
you're going to get a screen that looks something like this.\par
So here we've got our screen would say\par
is we've got MySQL connections.\par
So connections are the connection\par
that you as a client or, in this case, the Workbench as a client\par
makes the server.\par
So from the same MySQL Workbench client software,\par
we can open multiple connections,\par
but we're not really interested in that.\par
We'll start with a single connection.\par
And it says over here that the connection we're going to open\par
is the Local Instance 3306, which\par
3306 is the port on which it's operating.\par
And it says that the connection when it open with the username\par
root, and that's OK.\par
Ideally, when you have a client, the client\par
should be opening the connection, not as\par
a root because root has complete privileges to destroy stuff\par
if they feel like it, which is not a great idea,\par
but we are running a local installation,\par
and we're not really worried about messing stuff up.\par
So let's do that.\par
So you click on this, and it should open up this screen\par
here.\par
And here you can give a password to open it.\par
My password that I have done is none, which is our Python none.\par
And as a general rule, you can just save that,\par
so you don't have to keep entering it every day.\par
And say, OK.\par
And that brings up the GUI interface to your MySQL Server.\par
So once you've got this--\par
in mine, I've already have something here,\par
so I'm just going to cut that out.\par
So this comes up like this.\par
And what it does is it's got a whole bunch of stuff,\par
we don't worry too much about it.\par
The main thing here that we're going to look at\par
is the thing called schemas.\par
So we see the two schemas, there's a test schema in mine,\par
which you may or may not have.\par
And there's a sys schema, which is the system stuff.\par
You're not really going to mess with the system schema\par
or the test schema for that matter.\par
We'll create our own stuff along the way.\par
So the main thing that we're interested in\par
is this big window in the middle.\par
That is our query window.\par
This is where we enter the queries and get our results.\par
So let's try a couple of things.\par
We have two databases here already,\par
let's create a third one.\par
So I'll say CREATE database.\par
And note how it really nicely helps us by--\par
the Workbench sort of helps us by prompting us with stuff.\par
And we notice that it's got a little red X\par
next to that, which means the query is not\par
yet complete or it's an incorrect query\par
because it's not complete.\par
So we can do a CREATE database, let's call it SchoolDB.\par
I think that's what I call it there.\par
And once you've done this, we can execute this thing\par
by hitting the little lightning thing over there.\par
That executes a query.\par
And it says, CREATE database SchoolDB,\par
and it does this in the bottom of the screen over here.\par
It says one row affected, and there's a little green check\par
mark next to the line that tells us that yes, it's worked fine.\par
So we've done this.\par
Now what we want to do is next we\par
can try creating a table inside or well,\par
using the database, of course.\par
We need to use the database first.\par
So I say, USE SchoolDB, and I can execute this.\par
So what happens with this in the MySQL Workbench\par
is that you can either execute the entire thing by hitting\par
the little lightning stuff or execute only one line,\par
and that's what we're going to do here, just one line.\par
So let's do that.\par
It's a little bit clumsy.\par
So we could use SchoolDB that tell us\par
yes, we are using SchoolDB now.\par
And then, I create a table--\par
CREATE table.\par
Let's call it Student.\par
And I give it a list, so this is a table that I'm creating.\par
I need to tell it what different elements I'm\par
going to have in that.\par
So I could say here name worker 20 comma, and let's give it--\par
what else should we say?\par
City worker 20.\par
And again, just to make sure I don't run the whole thing.\par
If I run the whole thing, what's going to happen is that--\par
oh, yikes.\par
Sorry about that.\par
Let me run this again.\par
Run this, and I get a student table over here.\par
And now, when we do that, we will just delete all the stuff,\par
so that way I don't have to keep highlighting it.\par
And I can do short tables.\par
And it will show me the tables.\par
It tells me I have one table called Student,\par
and I can see what's inside it.\par
And whatever.\par
I can describe the table, so see the contents of the table\par
itself.\par
DESCRIBE student; and that tells me I have two elements--\par
a name and a city.\par
So this is a really simple way of using the client\par
that we have here, the Workbench client.\par
And what we will do is we will now\par
go on and take a look at what else we can do with this.\par
So let's clean this out until we come back to our data\par
definition queries in a second.\par
Let's clean this thing out.\par
So what I will do is I'm going to drop the database SchoolDB.\par
For now, we don't have that database is gone.\par
Now if I look at all the databases,\par
I shouldn't see that anymore.\par
SHOW databases, there's no SchoolDB now.\par
So the other databases that are there in the system.\par
Test is just a test one.\par
And the rest are, actually, we don't really\par
want to worry with them.\par
They're really, essentially, system-level databases.\par
So this is the Workbench client.\par
And what we're going to do next is\par
we're going to start seeing how we can use this,\par
so let's move on to our actual queries itself.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
  Previous\par
}
 