{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 The next thing we want to do is we\par
want to look at various network analysis algorithms.\par
We have this network, and we want to say meaningful things\par
about it.\par
So there's lots of stuff that you can do.\par
And we will look at a few of these features.\par
And my suggestion is that you explore this on your own.\par
But we will look at a few of these features, what\par
I think are probably the more important ones in understanding\par
the network.\par
What does understanding the network mean?\par
Well, the main idea is that given a network,\par
you want to find out how effectively you can communicate\par
across the network.\par
And that really is the main criteria that you want.\par
In a transportation network, how easy\par
is it to get from one place to another, right?\par
So if you have a transportation network that\par
has one central point, and then from the central point\par
you have radiating out of it like,\par
let's say, trains that go in, let's\par
say, Grand Central Station.\par
From there you can go to station 1, station 2, station 3,\par
station 4, station 5.\par
Or you can go on a different line for the station 7,\par
8, 9, 10; or a different line to station 11, 12, 13, and 14.\par
Then your network has a low communicability\par
because to get from one distant station on one line\par
to the distant station on the other line,\par
you have to go all the way to Grand Central\par
and then go on the other line all the way\par
to the end of the other station, right?\par
Whereas if you have a network where you have communication\par
between the lines themselves, so you go from-- line one\par
goes to station 1, 2, 3, 4.\par
And then line two goes to 5, 6, 7, 8.\par
And then you have a line that goes from, say, station 3\par
to station 6, another line, like a circular line.\par
Then you have a better communicability.\par
And this is often what you find in metros.\par
You find lines that radiate out and then lines that go across,\par
various lines that connect up the different lines so\par
that your communicability goes higher, right?\par
That's the goal there.\par
But there are many different ways of looking at it.\par
So we'll look at these different features of communicability\par
over here.\par
But I again recommend that you go through this stuff here\par
a little bit to see what's going on.\par
So the first thing is clustering.\par
The clustering tells you how closely knit\par
the nodes in a graph are.\par
Obviously if every node in the graph\par
has a connection to every other node in the graph, then\par
your node it is very tightly clustered.\par
And you can think of communicability as very high.\par
In one step you can go from anywhere to anywhere.\par
So let's look at this stuff here.\par
We can look at a node clustering coefficient or a graph\par
clustering coefficient.\par
The node clustering coefficient will show you\par
a measure that tells you the degree to which a node belongs\par
to a cluster.\par
That means, like for example, you could have--\par
well, we'll look at examples here.\par
So let's take a look at our graph.\par
We have a friend graph over here.\par
We have all these things in this.\par
And we want to look at the clustering on the friend graph.\par
And this tells us that node one is clustered 0.10, right?\par
That means that even though it's very highly--\par
has-- in fact, this is an interesting result\par
because even though node one has the highest number of friends\par
in our graph, it actually has a low clustering coefficient\par
because maybe those friends are not very well connected\par
to other nodes, right?\par
So just because one person has a lot of friends,\par
if those friends are, let's say, just not\par
connected to anybody else--\par
let's say you are connected to six other people.\par
And five of those other people are not\par
connected to anyone else, right?\par
And then you also connect to the sixth person.\par
But that sixth person is connected\par
to two people who are connected to three or connected to five.\par
The sixth person is probably better connected than you are,\par
even though you have more friends.\par
So what this is telling us is that though node one has\par
so many friends, it's clustering coefficient is not that high.\par
There are other nodes which have much higher clustering\par
coefficient, like 3.3345, et cetera.\par
And that really tells you how closely clustered\par
these things are.\par
So what you want to do for your graph\par
is compute clustering-- average clustering coefficient\par
across the graph.\par
And we find that the average is 0.58.\par
Obviously, if you have an average of one,\par
that would tell you that everything is\par
connected to everything else.\par
If you have a clustering coefficient of zero,\par
that would mean that nothing is connected.\par
It is just a graph with no edges, right?\par
So 0.58 is pretty good for a social network\par
graph, a well-connected graph.\par
And what we can do is, we'll take an example here\par
that's much simpler.\par
So I'm going to draw a complete graph here of four nodes.\par
And a complete graph is a graph that\par
has edges between every set of nodes.\par
So that's what it looks like.\par
And then we'll look at the clustering coefficient of this.\par
So if I do clustering of this thing here,\par
we find that it has a clustering-- every node has\par
a clustering coefficient of one because it's\par
connected to everything in the node itself.\par
So let's remove edge 1, 2 from the graph and draw it again.\par
So we get this here.\par
So now we don't have-- we have edges between--\par
three is connected to directly connected to 1, 0, and 2.\par
0 is directly connected to 1, 3, and 2.\par
But 2 and 1 have connections only to two nodes.\par
They don't have a connection to each other, right?\par
So now let's look at the clustering coefficient of this.\par
So looking at this, we see that node 0 has neighbors 1 and 2.\par
And there are three possible edges\par
that you can have between 0, 1, and 2.\par
So that would be 0, 2; 0, 1; and 1, 2.\par
But of those three possible edges, one is missing--\par
1, 2.\par
So you only have two possible edges.\par
So 2 divided by 3 is our clustering coefficient.\par
And that's 0.667.\par
Node 1, on the other hand, has two neighbors, 3 and 0.\par
And they're all connected.\par
So there are three possible edges.\par
And they're all connected.\par
So 3 divided by 3 is 1.\par
So the clustering coefficient of that is 1.\par
So that's the way clustering works.\par
There's also the notion of centrality and communicability.\par
So centrality deals with identifying the most important\par
nodes in a graph.\par
And communicability measures how easy\par
it is to send a message from a node I to a node J, all right?\par
And there are various different measures of communicability.\par
So let's take a look at each of these things here.\par
So we need to import them.\par
So we import closeness centrality and communicability.\par
And let's look at closeness centrality first.\par
Closeness centrality is the measure\par
of how near a node is to every other node in a network.\par
The higher the closeness centrality, the more central\par
a node is.\par
So roughly the idea being that you\par
can get to a node in shorter jumps, right.\par
So if you have a high closeness centrality,\par
you think of a node that's, say, central and connected, say--\par
well let's take an example here, right.\par
So let's see our example of four nodes over here.\par
So we've got these four nodes.\par
And we remove edge 1, 2, which is exactly what we did before.\par
And let's draw it again.\par
So we've got this graph here with edge 1, 2 removed.\par
And now we compute--\par
let's see what-- compute the closeness centrality\par
before that.\par
The closeness centrality is 1 for everything.\par
And the reason it's 1 for everything\par
is that you can get to everything in one jump.\par
Everything is well connected, right?\par
So now we want to look at the case where we remove one.\par
And what we're going to do here is, in this case is,\par
we have four nodes--\par
1, 2, 3, 4.\par
And the shortest path from node 2 are 2 to 0 is length 1.\par
2 to 3 is length 1.\par
And 2 to 1 is length 2.\par
So we sum up these, the sum of the shorter paths.\par
So the sum of the shortest paths is 2 plus 1 plus 1.\par
That's 4.\par
And 2n minus 1 divided by 4, and we get 0.75\par
as the closeness centrality for node 2.\par
So it tells us that node 2 is less central essentially\par
than node 0 and 3.\par
And node 1 and 2 are equally central.\par
So if I run this here, I get node 2\par
and node 1 have a 0.75 closeness centrally.\par
And node 0 and 3 have a 1.0 closeness centrally.\par
And intuitively that makes sense because what we are saying\par
is from 3 you can get to every other node in exactly one step.\par
Whereas on node 2, you can get to 3 and 0 in one step.\par
But to get 1 you need two steps.\par
So it's less central.\par
OK, that's the goal there.\par
So the whole idea in this, of course,\par
is the communicability the graph.\par
So the next step we want to look at\par
is how another measure called communicability,\par
which measures the degree to which one node can communicate\par
with another.\par
Now this is a little bit more complex than the other ones.\par
So it's harder to calculate because it\par
uses a matrix transformations to actually do that.\par
But the idea is very simple.\par
The idea takes into account that you take all the parts\par
into account.\par
Note that communicability has two features.\par
One is that you could say, for example, that 3 to 2 and 3 to 1\par
in this network are very close.\par
The closeness centrality of 3 is very high because in one step\par
you can get 2 and 1.\par
However, if you look at the network itself,\par
and let's say we remove the path from 2 to 3.\par
We remove that path from 2 to 3.\par
Then what will happen is that to get from 2 to 1,\par
you have exactly two ways.\par
If you're going 2 to 1, you can go from 2 to 0, 0 to 3, 3 to 1,\par
or 2 to 0, 0 to 1.\par
Whereas, if you had the 2 to 3 part,\par
then you would have four different ways\par
of getting there.\par
You would get 2 to 0.\par
Well, I'm sorry.\par
You can go from 2 to 3, 3 to 0, 0 to 1, 2 to 0, 0 to 3, 3 to 1,\par
2 to 0, 0 to 1, 2 to 3, 3 to 1.\par
So what we are doing is, we eliminated two paths\par
by removing that link between 2 and 3.\par
So roughly what we are saying is that if a path fails,\par
then the ease with which we can get from one node to another\par
goes down.\par
If you have fewer paths between two different locations,\par
then it's essentially less communicable.\par
That's your communicability. right?\par
The more paths you have between two locations,\par
the more communicable it is.\par
Think of it like this.\par
If you can go from-- if you can fly from New York to San\par
Francisco by multiple airlines, you\par
have a better choice than if you have only one airline.\par
And that's the idea there.\par
If that one airline goes on strike,\par
or has a outage on its computer systems,\par
or something like that, then you are in trouble.\par
If you can fly from New York to Singapore via Europe\par
or via Japan, than that's better than if you fly only\par
through Europe.\par
So if you're flying only through Frankfurt and Amsterdam,\par
for example, let's say the only choices\par
you have are Frankfurt and Amsterdam,\par
and there's a huge snowstorm in Europe,\par
then you can't go to Singapore.\par
Whereas, if you can also fly from New York to Tokyo\par
and then Tokyo to Singapore, then you still\par
have that option.\par
That's the rough idea of communicability here.\par
Rather than just looking at the speed\par
that you can get from one place to the other,\par
you want to see whether you have lots of alternatives or not.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
  Previous\par
}
 